Welcome to Publib!

Publib consists of two parts:

	* a generic framework for configuring, building, and installing
	  a C library in a UNIX environment (framework-*.tar.gz)

	* a set of library function that can be built using the framework
	  (liw-modules-*.tar.gz)

The framework is (starting with version 0.6) a pure build mechanism.
It contains no Publib specific parts.  Thus, it is possible to use it
to build other libraries as well.  It does require, however, the library
to follow certain conventions, but it provides some advantages.  First,
it makes it unnecessary to write the configuration scripts and makefiles
again and again.  Second, it is very easy to write the library functions
(Publib requires only that the library functions follow certain simple
conventions).  Even the makefile for the library module is trivial to
write.

The framework puts no copyright restrictions on the library code.
The framework itself is in the public domain (except for some files that
are generated by GNU autoconf; these and _only_ these are under the GPL).
This means that the framework can be used with commercial modules as well.

Stability: this is still alpha, expect bugs and changing interfaces.


Requirements
------------

The framework consists partly of UNIX shell scripts and makefiles; it
is fairly portable.

The modules may set additional requirements.  My own modules currently
require a standard conforming C environment, but I dream of several that
would require a POSIX environment.  Check the documentation for each
module you're interested in.


Getting Publib
--------------

Publib is available on the following anonymous ftp sites:

	ftp.cs.helsinki.fi: /pub/Software/Local/Publib
	ftp.funet.fi: /pub/languages/C/Publib

You need the following files:

	framework-XXX.tar.gz	The framework itself
	liw-modules-XXX.tar.gz	The modules by the author

(replace XXX with the version number).

Contacts
--------

Lars Wirzenius
Hernesaarenkatu 15 A 2		(for snail-mail)
00150 Helsinki
Finland

lars.wirzenius@helsinki.fi	(for e-mail)
wirzeniu@kruuna.helsinki.fi	(for finger)


Postcards!
----------

I enjoy getting postcards from abroad.  If you find Publib useful, I'd
be grateful if you could send me a postcard (not e-mail) to the above
snail-mail address.  Thanks!
